DeadlineQos TestCase [6425] (#6)
eProsima/Shapes-Demo-Docs: docs/lifespan.rst

Lifespan
==============================
The Lifespan QoS establish the maximum validity period of the samples saved on the entity history. Each of those

> samples has a lifespan timer associated so that once it expires the linked data is removed from the entity history.

Reviewer: Again, maybe too technical (also not strictly speaking correct, as there is one timer shared among samples, not one for each sample). You could just say something like:

> The lifespan QoS establishes the maximum validity period of the samples saved on an entity's history. When the lifespan period elapses, the corresponding sample is automatically removed.

If you want, you could also add to the previous sentence:

> Unlike the Deadline Qos, there is no callback to inform the user when this happens

(the latter is optional, just add it if you want).

Unlike other QoS, such as Deadline or Liveliness, this Qos does not provide a means to inform the user that

> the sample is being removed, which makes this test more complicated to illustrate. For this reason, we are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the sample is being removed, which makes this QoS more complicated to illustrate. For this reason, we are
```

Reviewer: Did you change this finally?

In this test, we are going to create two Publishers and two Subscribers, one using lifespan and the other

> without it, so you can see graphically the difference between both cases.

Reviewer: I liked that you warned above. However, I would say it in a different way (you can even use the sentence above which I said was optional):

> Unlike other QoS, such as Deadline or Liveliness, this Qos does not provide a means to inform the user that the sample is being removed, which makes this test more complicated to illustrate. For this reason, we are going to create two publishers and two subscribers, and make only one of them use Lifespan, so that the effect of using this QoS can be graphically seen.

**Step-by-Step**

> First, you have to launch an instance and create the two Publishers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, launch an instance and create the two publishers:
```

1 - Create a red square publisher:
   - Start eProsima Shapes-Demo. (We will refer to this instance as Instance1)
   - Click on Publish.
   - Select SQUARE option for Shape and RED for Color.
   - Select TRANSIENT_LOCAL option for the Durability.
   - Make sure that RELIABLE checkbox is marked.
   - Set History to 100.
   - Leave the Lifespan Duration to infinite.

2 - Create an orange triangle publisher on the previous ShapesDemo instance:
   - Click on Publish.
   - Select TRIANGLE option for Shape and ORANGE for Color.
   - Select TRANSIENT_LOCAL option for the Durability.
   - Make sure that RELIABLE checkbox is marked.
   - Set History to 100.
   - Set Lifespan Duration to 50.

After that, change the write rate to 1000:

3 - On Instance1:
    - Click on Options.
    - Select Preferences.
    - Set the update interval to 1000.

.. image:: test10_1.png
   :scale: 60 %
   :alt: Initial state
   :align: center

> Now, create two Subscribers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create two subscribers:
```

4 - Create a square subscriber:
   - Start eProsima Shapes-Demo. (We will refer to this instance as Instance2)
   - Click on Subscribe.
   - Select SQUARE option for Shape.
   - Select TRANSIENT_LOCAL option for the Durability.
   - Make sure that RELIABLE checkbox is marked.
   - Set History to 100.
   - Leave the Lifespan Duration to infinite.

5 - Create a triangle subscriber:
    - Start eProsima Shapes-Demo. (We will refer to this instance as Instance3)
    - Click on Subscribe.
    - Select TRIANGLE option for Shape.
    - Select TRANSIENT_LOCAL option for the Durability.
    - Make sure that RELIABLE checkbox is marked.
    - Set History to 100.
    - Set Lifespan Duration to 50.

> Note that when a new subscriber matched with the publisher, due to the TRANSIENT_LOCAL durability, all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when a new subscriber matches with the publisher, due to the TRANSIENT_LOCAL durability, all the
```

samples stored on the publisher history are sent automatically to the new subscriber.

> Knowing that we are going to explain what is happening on Instance2 and Instance3. As you can see, the square

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's explain what is happening on Instance2 and Instance3. As you can see, the square
```

> subscriber history is fulled rapidly, while the triangle subscriber one increases at the same speed as the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subscriber history is filled rapidly, while the triangle subscriber one increases at the same speed as the
```

> subscriber history is filled rapidly, while the triangle subscriber one increases at the same speed as the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subscriber history is filled rapidly, while the triangle subscriber one is filled at the same speed as the
```

> orange triangle publisher sends the new samples. That's why the samples of the orange triangle publisher history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
orange triangle publisher sends the new samples. This is because samples of the orange triangle publisher history
```

> orange triangle publisher sends the new samples. This is because samples of the orange triangle publisher history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
orange triangle publisher sends new samples. This is because in the second case, samples in the orange triangle publisher history
```

> are removed faster than he sends new ones, due to the lifespan, while the red square publisher history samples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are removed faster than new ones are being sent due to the lifespan QoS, while the red square publisher history samples
```

> are removed faster than new ones are being sent, due to the lifespan QoS, while the red square publisher history samples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 were removed by the Qos, and are no longer available to be sent to the subscriber, while the red square publisher samples
```

> are kept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
were kept in the history.
```

> by the Qos, and are no longer available to sent to the subscriber, while the red square publisher history samples were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the Qos, and are no longer available to be sent to the subscriber, while the red square publisher history samples were
```
